03.02 | How to Implement (Math Laws)
====================================

There are several laws that govern the math principles:

- `*` and `/` operations came before than `+` and `-` operations;
- The depeest `()` scope have the highest expression priority;
- Division by 0 isn't allowed;
- ...

So, how can I implement this as code?

Take String, Analyze and Evalute
--------------------------------

The user will input some kind of String. The program task is:

1. Take The String
2. Analyze the given String (no changes) - validation test
3. Split String into tokens
4. Insert these tokens in some kind of data structure
5. Evaluate each token of our data structure
6. Do tests through each evaluation

### Take the String

Taking the String is the most simple thing of our task list. Just
a `Scanner.nextLine()`. No worries here 😮‍💨

### Analyze the given String

To simplify the expression evaluation, we'll need to simplify our
String input by splitting it/removing whitespaces, but there's some
details:

- `1 + 2` == `1+2` (ok)
- `1-    5 +  1` == `1-5+1` (ok)
- `1   2+1` == `12+1` (not ok 😔)

So, we need to analyzer our String **before** simplifying it. This is
my proposal:

- we get `1-   5 +  1` as input
- split on whitespaces, getting `["1-", "", "", "5", "+", "", "1"]`
- remove empty tokens, getting `["1-", "5", "+", "1"]`
- do token testing:
  - the input will be valid only **(and only)** if the last token
    char is a different type compared to the first token char
    (next token)
    - `"-"` is a operator, `"5"` is a digit
    - `"5"` is a digit, `"+"` is a operator
    - `"+"` is a operator, `"1"` is a digit
    - **expression is Ok**

This will work 100%. Let's consider an invalid input: `1+ 2 *3  2*2`:

- `1+ 2 *3  2*2`
- `["1+", "2", "*3", "2*2"]`
  - `"1+"` and `"2"`: ok (`"+"` | `"2"`)
  - `"2"` and `"*3"`: ok (`"2"` | `"*"`)
  - `"*3"` and `"2*2"`: **not ok** (`"3"` | `"2"`)
- returns error: operator symbol
  missing `["1+", "2", "*3", "<?>", "2*2"]`

> [!CAUTION]
> 
> We can't forget the math features 🤓
>
> - the `.` isn't a digit, but it needs to be considered as one. Look
>   the following scenario:
>   - `2.1` is a decimal number
>   - `2.` means `2.0` (useless `.` usage)
>   - `.1` is ugly a lot 💀, but it can mean `0.1`
>   - `2. 1` is an error because it have ambiguous interpretation
>     (`2.` and `1` or `2.1`). _(The operator symbol is missing, by
>     the way)_
> - how to evaluate expressions starting  with negative numbers?
>   - if we have `-1 * 3` it need to return `-3`, but how? The `-1`
>     isn't subtraction at all
>   - we can do all the testing, and, if everything is ok, push `0`
>     to the begin of our expression:
>     - `-1+2*3` (expecting `5` as result)
>     - `0-1+2*3`
>     - `0-1+6`
>     - `-1+6`
>     - `5`
>   - But buddy, this doesn't even make sense! `-1` and `0-1` is the
>     same thing. Yeah You're right, but it's the same thing during
>     math evaluation (Using Int/Float), not during Token analysis.

### Evaluate the String

#### Constraints

1. Operator priority: _(less the number, higher the priority)_

| Number | Operator Symbol | Operator Name  |
| ------ | --------------- | -------------- |
| 1      | `^`             | exponent       |
| 2      | `*`             | multiplication |
| 3      | `/`             | division       |
| 4      | `+`             | addition       |
| 5      | `-`             | subtraction    |

> [!NOTE]
>
> We can't forget the parenthesis element. It have the highest
> priority at the precedence list, so, if we have `2 * 2 + (7-2)`, we
> need to evaluate it as `2 * 2 + 5` instead of `4 + 7 - 2`. _Even if
> give us the same result.

2. Division by 0: as you probably know, division by 0 isn't allowed
   at colegial math (new features implemented in university calculus,
   aka integral & derivative xD). So, we need to catch all division
   by 0 scenario during eval time. It's kinda easy.

   Basically:
   - `x / y`;
   - if `y` is equals to 0, return division by 0 error.

3. Numerical limits: Imagine we doing this: 
   `99999...(for the next 1000 chars)...99 + 1`. This will return an
   extremely large number (and can cause a MemoryOverflow), so...
   instead of getting the String expression and evaluate it directly,
   we can take the String, do expression testing (if all tokens are
   valid) and test each token lenght. If greater than the limit,
   return error status (also valid of float tokens - precision
   issue). We can also test the result value post-evaluation: if
   number too big and evaluation not done yet, return error.
